README.md, before:

# Web MIDI API Polyfill

This JS library is a prototype polyfill and shim for the [Web MIDI API](https://dvcs.w3.org/hg/audio/raw-file/tip/midi/specification.html) (of which I am a co-author), using [Jazz-Soft.net's Jazz-Plugin](http://jazz-soft.net/) to enable MIDI support on Windows, OSX and Linux.  You need to have at least [version 1.2](http://jazz-soft.net/download/Jazz-Plugin/1.2) of the Jazz-Plugin in order for this polyfill to work properly.  This polyfill and the plugin should work on Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Opera and IE.

I'm currently using this polyfill to test usability of the API itself, but it's also useful to enable MIDI scenarios.

This polyfill now supports multiple simultaneous inputs and outputs, and sending and receiving long messages (sysem exclusive).  It also properly dispatches events.  Timestamps on send and receive should be properly implemented now, although of course timing will not be very precise on either.

Jazz doesn't expose the version number or manufacturer, so these are always null.

##Usage

1. Copy the WebMIDIAPI.js file from /lib/ into your project.  
2. Add "&lt;script src='lib/WebMIDIAPI.js'>&lt;/script>" to your code.

You can use the Web MIDI API as captured in the specification  - the polyfill will automatically check to see if the Web MIDI API is already implemented, and if not it will insert itself.

So, some sample usage: 

	var m = null;   // m = MIDIAccess object for you to make calls on
    navigator.requestMIDIAccess().then( onsuccesscallback, onerrorcallback );
    
    function onsuccesscallback( access ) { 
    	m = access;

    	// Things you can do with the MIDIAccess object:
	    var inputs = m.inputs();   // inputs = array of MIDIPorts
	    var outputs = m.outputs(); // outputs = array of MIDIPorts
	    inputs[0].onmidimessage = myMIDIMessagehandler;	// onmidimessage( event ), event.data & event.receivedTime are populated
	    var o = m.outputs()[0];           // grab first output device
	    o.send( [ 0x90, 0x45, 0x7f ] );     // full velocity note on A4 on channel zero
	    o.send( [ 0x80, 0x45, 0x7f ], window.performance.now() + 1000 );  // full velocity A4 note off in one second.
	};

	function onerrorcallback( err ) {
		console.log("uh-oh! Something went wrong!  Error code: " + err.code );
	}

You can also take a look at [index.html](http://cwilso.github.com/WebMIDIAPIShim/tests/index.html) for a basic test, or [multi.html](http://cwilso.github.com/WebMIDIAPIShim/tests/multi.html) for a multiple-simultaneous-input test.  Better documentation later.  :)

##Node.js install

    npm install web-midi-api

##Node.js example

    var navigator = require('web-midi-api');
    
    var ins;
    var outs;
    
    function onMIDIFailure(msg){
      console.log("Failed to get MIDI access - " + msg);
    }
    
    function onMIDISuccess(midiAccess){
      midi = midiAccess;
      ins = midi.inputs();
      outs = midi.outputs();
      setTimeout(testOutputs, 200);
    }
    
    function testOutputs(){
      console.log('Testing MIDI-Out ports...');
      for(var i in outs){
        var x = outs[i];
        console.log('id:', x.id, "manufacturer:", x.manufacturer, "name:", x.name, "version:", x.version);
        x.send([0x90, 60, 0x7f]);
      }
      setTimeout(stopOutputs, 1000);
    }
    
    function stopOutputs(){
      for(var i in outs){
        outs[i].send([0x80, 60, 0]);
      }
      testInputs();
    }
    
    function onMidiIn(ev){
      var arr = [];
      for(var i=0; i<ev.data.length; i++) arr.push((ev.data[i]<16 ? '0' : '') + ev.data[i].toString(16));
      console.log('MIDI:', arr.join(' '));
    }
    
    function testInputs(){
      console.log('Testing MIDI-In ports...');
      for(var i in ins){
        var x = ins[i];
        console.log('id:', x.id, "manufacturer:", x.manufacturer, "name:", x.name, "version:", x.version);
        x.onmidimessage = onMidiIn;
      }
      setTimeout(stopInputs, 5000);
    }
    
    function stopInputs(){
      console.log('Thank you!');
      navigator.close(); // This will close MIDI inputs, otherwise Node.js will wait for MIDI input forever.
    }
    
    navigator.requestMIDIAccess().then(onMIDISuccess,onMIDIFailure);

Commit message:

changed readme, suitable for use with meteor

README.md, after:

# Web MIDI API Polyfill

by Chris Wilson

This JS library is a prototype polyfill and shim for the [Web MIDI API](https://dvcs.w3.org/hg/audio/raw-file/tip/midi/specification.html), using [Jazz-Soft.net's Jazz-Plugin](http://jazz-soft.net/) to enable MIDI support on Windows, OSX and Linux.  You need to have at least [version 1.2](http://jazz-soft.net/download/Jazz-Plugin/1.2) of the Jazz-Plugin in order for this polyfill to work properly.  This polyfill and the plugin should work on Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Opera and IE.

I'm currently using this polyfill to test usability of the API itself, but it's also useful to enable MIDI scenarios.

This polyfill now supports multiple simultaneous inputs and outputs, and sending and receiving long messages (system exclusive).  It also properly dispatches events.  Timestamps on send and receive should be properly implemented now, although of course timing will not be very precise on either.

Jazz doesn't expose the version number or manufacturer, so these are always null.

##Meteor install and usage

Use "meteor add flowkey:web-midi-api-shim" to add this package to your meteor project via Atmosphere.
This adds requestMIDIAccess() to your clientside navigator object.

You can use the Web MIDI API as captured in the specification  - the polyfill will automatically check to see if the Web MIDI API is already implemented, and if not it will insert itself.

So, some sample usage: 

	var m = null;   // m = MIDIAccess object for you to make calls on
    navigator.requestMIDIAccess().then( onsuccesscallback, onerrorcallback );
    
    function onsuccesscallback( access ) { 
    	m = access;

    	// Things you can do with the MIDIAccess object:
	    var inputs = m.inputs();   // inputs = array of MIDIPorts
	    var outputs = m.outputs(); // outputs = array of MIDIPorts
	    inputs[0].onmidimessage = myMIDIMessagehandler;	// onmidimessage( event ), event.data & event.receivedTime are populated
	    var o = m.outputs()[0];           // grab first output device
	    o.send( [ 0x90, 0x45, 0x7f ] );     // full velocity note on A4 on channel zero
	    o.send( [ 0x80, 0x45, 0x7f ], window.performance.now() + 1000 );  // full velocity A4 note off in one second.
	};

	function onerrorcallback( err ) {
		console.log("uh-oh! Something went wrong!  Error code: " + err.code );
	}

You can also take a look at [index.html](http://cwilso.github.com/WebMIDIAPIShim/tests/index.html) for a basic test, or [multi.html](http://cwilso.github.com/WebMIDIAPIShim/tests/multi.html) for a multiple-simultaneous-input test.  Better documentation later.  :)

##Node.js install

    npm install web-midi-api

##Node.js example

    var navigator = require('web-midi-api');
    
    var ins;
    var outs;
    
    function onMIDIFailure(msg){
      console.log("Failed to get MIDI access - " + msg);
    }
    
    function onMIDISuccess(midiAccess){
      midi = midiAccess;
      ins = midi.inputs();
      outs = midi.outputs();
      setTimeout(testOutputs, 200);
    }
    
    function testOutputs(){
      console.log('Testing MIDI-Out ports...');
      for(var i in outs){
        var x = outs[i];
        console.log('id:', x.id, "manufacturer:", x.manufacturer, "name:", x.name, "version:", x.version);
        x.send([0x90, 60, 0x7f]);
      }
      setTimeout(stopOutputs, 1000);
    }
    
    function stopOutputs(){
      for(var i in outs){
        outs[i].send([0x80, 60, 0]);
      }
      testInputs();
    }
    
    function onMidiIn(ev){
      var arr = [];
      for(var i=0; i<ev.data.length; i++) arr.push((ev.data[i]<16 ? '0' : '') + ev.data[i].toString(16));
      console.log('MIDI:', arr.join(' '));
    }
    
    function testInputs(){
      console.log('Testing MIDI-In ports...');
      for(var i in ins){
        var x = ins[i];
        console.log('id:', x.id, "manufacturer:", x.manufacturer, "name:", x.name, "version:", x.version);
        x.onmidimessage = onMidiIn;
      }
      setTimeout(stopInputs, 5000);
    }
    
    function stopInputs(){
      console.log('Thank you!');
      navigator.close(); // This will close MIDI inputs, otherwise Node.js will wait for MIDI input forever.
    }
    
    navigator.requestMIDIAccess().then(onMIDISuccess,onMIDIFailure);
